1.Remedies and Treatments for Stomach Pain
Stomach pains is also known as stomachaches, tummy aches, and bellyaches; can range from mildly annoying to painfully incapacitating. It can be caused by a food allergy, indigestion, or eating something that has gone bad. Or it can be something more serious like an ulcer, Crohn’s disease, or stomach cancer.
At home, there are things you can do, and things you can take, to potentially alleviate your stomach pain. 

2.Use a Heating Pad 
A simple remedy is to place a heating pad where it hurts on your stomach. The heat relaxes your outer stomach muscles and promotes movement in the digestive tract. Lying down usually works best. Keep it on your stomach for 15 minutes. 

3.Draw a Hot Bath 

Similar to a heating pad, the warm, soothing effect of a hot bath not only relaxes the stomach area, but it also relaxes the rest of your body. Once the water temperature is to your liking, soak for 15 to 20 minutes.

4.Get Some Sleep
A recent study found that digestive disruptions can be directly tied to lack of sleep. Getting a full night’s rest improves the overall health of your body and can help ease any stomach pains you may be experiencing.

5.Do not overeat
Overeating causes your stomach to expand and push against other internal organs, causing discomfort. It also forces your intestines to produce extra hydrochloric acid, which can squeeze up into your stomach, causing pain. Controlling the amount you eat not only helps with limiting weight gain, but it can also help the overall health and operational efficiency of your stomach.

6.Chamomile Tea
This ancient brew has been used for countless homeopathic remedies for centuries, and it is especially effective in soothing an upset stomach. Its anti-inflammatory properties help your stomach muscles relax, which can reduce cramp and spasm pains.

7.Ginger
This versatile herb can be consumed in many forms, from teas to pills to food. Ginger has been found to significantly improve the symptoms of nausea and vomiting, as well as being a soothing relaxant for the stomach.

8.Peppermint
Nausea is a persistent cause of stomach pain. Ingesting peppermint, either in a tea or a supplement, can help alleviate nausea and make your stomach feel better.

9.Soda Water 
Sometimes stomach pain can be caused by indigestion or a buildup of gas that sits in your stomach. Drinking soda water can encourage you to burp, releasing the stuck gas. 

It is not recommended, however, to take pain relievers such as aspirin or ibuprofen like Advil or Motrin because these can cause stomach irritation that may worsen abdominal pain.

